# Breadth-First Search with Matrix Multiplication
An implementation of a rudimentary Breadth-First Search using matrix multiplication. The script is based on [this paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7046157) and implements a modified, rudimentary, version using repeated matrix multiplication to determine if a path exists between two vertices. Additional resources related to this topic include the book Graph Algorithms in the Language of Linear Algebra by Jeremy Kepner and John Gilbert. I uploaded this small script here as a part of an assignment for Linear Algebra 1. This script has two functions, bfs_linear_algebra, and bfs_bit_operations, which both do the same thing, but one uses numpy matrix multiplication and one uses bit operations.

This method takes advantage of the fact that when you multiply an nxn matrix by a unit vector, the ith column of the vector is extracted and returned as the result of the operation. When applied to graphs, it means you can extract the neighbors of a vertex using matrix multiplication. Repeating matrix multiplication allows you to discover every vertex that is possible to reach from a source vertex since every vertex that is n steps away from a source vertex will be discovered after n multiplications of the unit vector. 

The first function, uses numpy's matmul function to do repeated matrix multiplication, then does element-wise & with the product of matrix multiplication to eliminate previously visited nodes. The second function uses bit operations to replicate matrix multiplication on integers represented by n bits (with an n x n matrix). If we treat the binary representation of an integer as a vertex, we can multiply an nxn matrix by an n vertex by setting the ith bit of the result to if the result of row & vertex is not 0. Doing that for each row in the adjacency matrix will return the result of matrix multiplication (See source for details). 

Bilbliography:

H. M. Bücker and C. Sohr, "Reformulating a Breadth-First Search Algorithm on an Undirected Graph in the Language of Linear Algebra," 2014 International Conference on Mathematics and Computers in Sciences and in Industry, 2014, pp. 33-35, doi: 10.1109/MCSI.2014.40.
